Create detailed custom-target-porting.md (#1145)
ARMmbed/Handbook: docs/porting/custom-target-porting.md

                 "value": "USE_PLL_MSI",
                 "macro_name": "CLOCK_SOURCE"
             },
             "lpticker_lptim": {
                 "help": "This target supports LPTIM. Set value 1 to use LPTIM for LPTICKER, or 0 to use RTC wakeup timer",
                 "value": 1
             }
         },
         "overrides": { "lpticker_delay_ticks": 4 },
         "detect_code": ["1234"],
         "macros_add": [
             "MBED_TICKLESS",
             "MBED_SPLIT_HEAP"
         ],
         "device_has_add": [
             "CRC",
             "TRNG",
             "FLASH",
             "QSPI",
             "MPU"
         ],
         "device_has_remove": [         
             "ANALOGIN",
             "I2CSLAVE",
             "I2C_ASYNCH"
         ],                     
         "release_versions": ["2", "5"],
         "device_name": "STM32L475VG",
         "bootloader_supported": true
     }
   }
   ```

   Let's review the changes one by one.

#### Changes

1. The board name changed from `DISCO_L475VG_IOT01A` to `IMAGINARYBOARD`, so the board can be uniquely identified.

> 1. The `detect_code` changed from `0764` to `1234`. The `detect_code` is a unique number that identifies the board to the Mbed OS test tools. For Mbed Enabled boards, this number is exposed through the debug interface with Mbed CLI by typing `mbedls`.

Reviewer: Do we need some information how to set it? When do you need to get it from us and when it's ok to just pick some? How to avoid clashes? Consideration based on public vs private port? I guess it deserves a link to a separate doc.

Author: Looking through our documentation - I see it mentioned a few times, but never really see it explained well and the terminology is inconsistent.  

- Sometimes its called a **board id** (https://www.mbed.com/en/about-mbed/mbed-enabled/requirements/).  
- Sometimes it is called **four-digit hexadecimal identifier** (https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/v5.14/porting/mbed-ls.html)
- Sometimes its called a **Platform ID** (https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-tools/tree/master/packages/mbed-ls#adding-platform-support).  
- Sometimes its called **unique board ID** (https://os.mbed.com/docs/mbed-os/v5.14/porting/setting-up.html)
- Sometimes its called **detect_code** (https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os/blob/master/targets/targets.json) 

I like Board ID, but Platform ID or the others seem fine.  

For me the key points are: 
1. Board IDs are unique identifiers assigned by the Arm Mbed team.
2. Board IDs are used by the Mbed tools to identify the connected board.
3. You really only need your own unique ID if you plan to push your platform to the Mbed community.
4. You can make Mbed CLI recognize your own custom board even without getting your own Board ID.
5. Contact a technical account manger or Mbed support if you would like to request a board ID.  

@AnotherButler - can you recommend where this information would be best located?

Author: I just added a new commit for this PR with changes related to the Platform ID. Also, I made pull request https://github.com/ARMmbed/mbed-os-5-docs/pull/1175 to align the terminology and add more detail.  Please let me know if this addresses the comments.

# Porting Mbed OS to a custom board

When designing a custom board based on an existing Mbed Enabled board, you may need to make configuration and software changes to adapt Mbed OS to run on your new board. This is called a software port. The necessary changes may include adaptations for the unique design choices you have made for your new board, such as clocking, pin connections and peripheral usage. This can often be accomplished by adding configuration and source files to an Mbed OS-based application project without the need to modify files within `mbed-os`, itself. If you don't plan to push your changes to the upstream `mbed-os` repository, this simplifies your software configuration management by allowing you to keep your new files separate.

> Mbed OS supports target inheritance, which allows you to extend an existing microcontroller (MCU) target and just add software and configurations required for your board. You have the ability to add a file named `custom_target.json` to your project, which can store your custom target configurations without the need to modify `targets.json`.

Reviewer 2: I'm not clear on the break and order of information in the first two paragraphs.

> Mbed OS supports target inheritance, which allows you to extend an existing microcontroller (MCU) target and just add software and configurations required for your board. You have the ability to add a file named `custom_target.json` to your project, which can store your custom target configurations without the need to modify `targets.json`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mbed OS supports target inheritance, which allows you to extend an existing microcontroller (MCU) target and just add software and configurations required for your board. You can add a file named `custom_target.json` to your project, which can store your custom target configurations without the need to modify `targets.json`.
```

Reviewer 2: Note that this sentence assumes I know what targets.json is; might be nice to link to information about it, or any other information we want people to have before they try this tutorial (the assumption may be correct for our readers - I'm just pointing it out)

> This tutorial provides a quick overview on how to create a custom port using `custom_target.json`. It covers the most common methods. For detailed information covering all the ways you can configure targets, go to [adding and configuring targets](../reference/adding-and-configuring-targets.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial covers the most common methods used to create a custom port with `custom_target.json`. For detailed information covering all the ways you can configure targets, go to [adding and configuring targets](../reference/adding-and-configuring-targets.html).
```

## Extending an existing MCU target configuration

> As an example, consider a situation in which you are creating a new board based on an existing Mbed Enabled board. For this tutorial, consider a new board called `ImaginaryBoard` that is based on [DISCO-L475VG-IOT01A](https://os.mbed.com/platforms/ST-Discovery-L475E-IOT01A/).

Reviewer 2: Is that an example, or just the premise of this whole document?

> `ImaginaryBoard` shares most of the same features of DISCO-L475VG-IOT01A, but it does not use `AnalogOut`, `AnalogIn`, `CAN` or `USB`. Some pins are also connected differently on the new board.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`ImaginaryBoard` shares most of the features of DISCO-L475VG-IOT01A, but it does not use `AnalogOut`, `AnalogIn`, `CAN` or `USB`. Some pins are also connected differently on the new board.
```

> Assuming you have Mbed CLI installed, follow these steps to make the port.

Reviewer 2: Don't assume; link me to the installation instructions

Reviewer 2: Do we make a port, or port?

1. (Optional) Create a new Mbed program (for example, `mbed-os-imaginary-port`).

   If you don't already have an Mbed program on your computer, at a command terminal, run this Mbed CLI command:

   ```
   mbed new --program mbed-os-imaginary-port
   ```
  

>    This command imports `mbed-os` from the [official Mbed OS source repository](https://github.com/armmbed/mbed-os) into a new directory called `mbed-os-imaginary-port`.

Reviewer 2: If this is the point of this step, then it should be the first sentence in it. Something like "Import mbed-os by creating a new programme with Mbed CLI"

>    Now, change directories into your new project:  

Reviewer 2: Whenever you use a time word, it's a good indication that you may need a numbered step.

  ```
  cd mbed-os-imaginary-port
  ```

> 1. Create a new file named `custom_targets.json` at the same level as the `mbed-os` directory:

Reviewer 2: What does : refer to?

>    Inspect the contents of `mbed-os/targets/targets.json`. For this example, search for `DISCO_L475VG_IOT01A`.

Reviewer 2: This feels like a new step.

>    Copy the contents from the `DISCO_L475VG_IOT01A` section into your `custom_targets.json` file. Be sure to include brackets `{ }` surrounding the content.

Reviewer 2: New step

>    Then make changes for your board. For example, after making changes, the full contents look like this:

Reviewer 2: New step

>    Then make changes for your board. For example, after making changes, the full contents look like this:

Reviewer 2: Actually, you can consider having all the previous steps as a sort of "getting ready" bit, and then the interesting bits that follow them (where you actually change the target file) are just a whole new section, with a nice header indicating that

                 "value": "USE_PLL_MSI",
                 "macro_name": "CLOCK_SOURCE"
             },
             "lpticker_lptim": {
                 "help": "This target supports LPTIM. Set value 1 to use LPTIM for LPTICKER, or 0 to use RTC wakeup timer",
                 "value": 1
             }
         },
         "overrides": { "lpticker_delay_ticks": 4 },
         "detect_code": ["1234"],
         "macros_add": [
             "MBED_TICKLESS",
             "MBED_SPLIT_HEAP"
         ],
         "device_has_add": [
             "CRC",
             "TRNG",
             "FLASH",
             "QSPI",
             "MPU"
         ],
         "device_has_remove": [         
             "ANALOGIN",
             "I2CSLAVE",
             "I2C_ASYNCH"
         ],                     
         "release_versions": ["2", "5"],
         "device_name": "STM32L475VG",
         "bootloader_supported": true
     }
   }
   ```

   Let's review the changes one by one.

   - The board name was changed from `DISCO_L475VG_IOT01A` to `IMAGINARYBOARD` so the board can be uniquely identified.

>    - The `detect_code` was changed from `0764` to `1234`. The `detect_code` is a unique number that identifies the board to the Mbed OS test tools. This number is typically built into the debug interface.

Reviewer 2: "Typically built" does that mean that's where I get it from? What if it's not there - how do I know which number to define?

   - The `macros_add` section was changed to remove `USBHOST_OTHER` because USB is not used on the new board.

>    - The `device_has_add` section was changed to not add the `ANALOGOUT`, `CAN`, `USBDEVICE` drivers because those features are not used on the new board.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - The `device_has_add` section was changed to not add the `ANALOGOUT`, `CAN`, and `USBDEVICE` drivers because those features are not used on the new board.
```

>    - A new section, `device_has_remove`, was added. This removes `ANALOGIN`, `I2CSLAVE`, and `I2C_ASYNCH` drivers because these features are also not used.  The reason why `device_has_remove` is used in this case is because the board is inheriting from the MCU Family configuration `FAMILY_STM32`, which has those drivers added by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - A new section, `device_has_remove`, was added. This removes the `ANALOGIN`, `I2CSLAVE`, and `I2C_ASYNCH` drivers because these features are also not used. The reason `device_has_remove` is used in this case is that the board is inheriting from the MCU Family configuration `FAMILY_STM32`, which has those drivers added by default.
```

Reviewer 2: I feel like the point about having to remove inherited things can be made more prominent.

   All the other configurations for the board are inherited from the MCU Family configuration called `FAMILY_STM32`.  

>    Here are some other typical changes that might be needed.

Reviewer 2: "might be needed" already means "optional", so you don't need to open the bullets with that word

   
   - (Optional) You can also use `device_has_add` to add additional drivers.

>    <span class="notes">**Note:** If you choose to add a driver, you may have to provide the driver implementation if it is not already available for your hardware.</span>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   <span class="notes">**Note:** If you choose to add a driver that is not already available for your hardware, you will have to provide the driver implementation.</span>
```

>    - (Optional) Similarly, you can use `features_add`, `features_remove`, `components_add`, `components_remove`, `macros_add` and `macros_remove` to add/remove configurations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - (Optional) Similarly, you can use `features_add`, `features_remove`, `components_add`, `components_remove`, `macros_add` and `macros_remove` to add or remove configurations.
```

## Configuring the target code directories

In some cases, the target source code directories follow a similar structure as the target configuration, but they could have a few more levels.

For example, in the `mbed-os/targets` folder, the target directories for DISCO_L475VG_IOT01A follow this pattern:

   ```
   mbed-os
       |_targets
             |_TARGET_STM            <- MCU VENDOR
             |      |_TARGET_STM32L4             <- MCU FAMILY
             |             |_TARGET_STM32L475xG               <- MCU
             |                    |_TARGET_DISCO_L475VG_IOT01A     <- Board
   ```

Boards typically inherit files that support the MCU, MCU family and MCU vendor. When adding a new board, you need to add a new set of files for the board.

> You may be wondering why there are more directory levels than target configuration levels. This is because many targets use the `extra_labels_add` feature in the target configuration. The following keywords `STM32L4`, `STM32L475xG`, `STM32L475VG` resolve to `TARGET_STM32L4`, `TARGET_STM32L475xG`, `TARGET_STM32L475VG` respectively. With those labels applied, these directory names get included in the build for this target.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may be wondering why there are more directory levels than target configuration levels. This is because many targets use the `extra_labels_add` feature in the target configuration. The keywords `STM32L4`, `STM32L475xG`, `STM32L475VG` resolve to `TARGET_STM32L4`, `TARGET_STM32L475xG`, `TARGET_STM32L475VG` respectively. With those labels applied, these directory names get included in the build for this target.
```

1. Create a new directory called `TARGET_IMAGINARYBOARD` at the top level of your project.
   
   Your directory should look something like this:
   
   ```
   custom_target.json
   TARGET_IMAGINARYBOARD
   mbed-os
   .mbed
   mbed_settings.py
   mbed-os.lib
   ```
   
1. Now place source files for the board.
   
   Inspect the files at `mbed-os\targets\TARGET_STM\TARGET_STM32L4\TARGET_STM32L475xG\TARGET_DISCO_L475VG_IOT01A`. You should find the following files or similar:
   

>    `PeripheralNames.h`, `PeripheralPins.c`, `PinNames.h`, `system_clock.c`

Reviewer 2: There's a lot of repetition in this step. You can combine which files I should see with what they provide.

   
   Copy the files into your new `TARGET_IMAGINARYBOARD` directory.
   
   The files provide these capabilities.
      
   - `PeripheralNames.h` describes the available peripherals and their base addresses.
   - `PeripheralPins.c` describes the available pins and their association with peripherals.
   - `PinNames.h` sets macros for pins that define their function.
   - `system_clock.c` vendor specific file that initializes the system and sets up the clocks.
      

> 1. Modify the files.

Reviewer 2: Again, maybe have all the previous steps as a "getting ready" bit and this as a new header, since it's the meat of the issue

>    `PinNames.h` is the most common file to be edited. For our example, the ImaginaryBoard is using I2C but connected to different supported signals. Change the I2C pin macro definitions from:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   `PinNames.h` is the most common file to be edited. For our example, the ImaginaryBoard uses I2C connected to different supported signals. Change the I2C pin macro definitions from:
```

   
   ```
   I2C_SCL     = D15,
   I2C_SDA     = D14,
   ```
   
   to
   
   ```
   I2C_SCL     = PC_0,
   I2C_SDA     = PC_1,
   ```
   

>    This edit is mainly for convenience if your application code uses standard I2C pin names `I2C_SDA` and `I2C_SCL`.

Reviewer 2: This feels like you could add some interesting information.

   
   You may also choose to add or remove peripherals, add or remove pins or change the clock frequency by editing `PeripheralNames.h`, `PeripheralPins.c` or `system_clock.c`. In our example, for simplicity, we will not edit these files.
   

> 1. (Optional) Add additional files.

Reviewer 2: You don't need both lines of this step; the second line includes all the information of the first line.

   If necessary, add additional source files for drivers or middleware you have implemented for the new board. In our example, we do not have any files to add.

1. (Optional) Add a simple application source file for testing.

    To confirm the software builds for the new target, add a file named `main.cpp` with the following contents:

    ```  
    #include "mbed.h"
    
    DigitalOut led1(LED1);

    int main()
    {
        while (true) {
            led1 = !led1;
            wait_ms(500);
        }
    }
    ``` 

>     This blinks an LED. Just make sure LED1 is defined for the board.

Reviewer 2: "Just make sure LED1 is defined" is maybe an important point that should be made more prominent.

    
    Your directory now looks something like this:
    
    ```
    main.cpp
    custom_target.json
    TARGET_IMAGINARYBOARD
    mbed-os
    .mbed
    mbed_settings.py
    mbed-os.lib
    ```
    
1. Compile the project.
   

>   With the target configuration set and files added, it is ready to compile. Run the command:

Reviewer 2: Not sure this sentence adds new info.

   ```
   mbed compile -m IMAGINARYBOARD -t <toolchain>
   ```
   
   When successful, it compiles, links and generates a `.bin` file (or `.hex` file for some other boards).

   For example, it prints to the screen:
   
   ```
   Image: .\BUILD\IMAGINARYBOARD\GCC_ARM\mbed-os-imaginary-port.bin
   ```

1. Program the board.  

>   You can test this simple example using a `DISCO-L475VG-IOT01A`. If you actually created a `ImaginaryBoard` board, you could use that too.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  You can test this simple example using a `DISCO-L475VG-IOT01A`. If you actually created an `ImaginaryBoard` board, you could use that too.  
```

>   <span class="notes">**Note:** Unless your board has an Mbed Enabled debug interface, you need a method of flashing the memory on your board. </span>

Reviewer 2: Should this come earlier?

>   Since the `DISCO-L475VG-IOT01A` has a Mbed Enabled debug interface (STLink in this case), we can use drag-and-drop programming to flash the board.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Since the `DISCO-L475VG-IOT01A` has an Mbed Enabled debug interface (STLink in this case), we can use drag-and-drop programming to flash the board.
```

Reviewer 2: Are we flipping a bit between "We" and "You"?

  
  Locate the binary file and drag it onto the disk drive name for the board (for example, `DIS_L4IOT`).
  

>   After the file transfer is complete, press the reset button on the board. You should see the LED blinking.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  When the file transfer is complete, press the reset button on the board. You should see the LED blinking.
```

Reviewer 2: New step

> 1. (Optional) Run automated tests.

Reviewer 2: Maybe new header?

  With an Mbed Enabled debug interface, you can also run the Mbed OS automated tests on your port. Since a new board has a new name that is unknown to the Mbed tools, you will need to tell the tools which `detect_code` to associate it to.
  
  To do this, you can use the `mbedls` `mock` command option. In our case, we are testing with a `DISCO-L475VG-IOT01A`, which has a debug interface that exposes `0764` as its detect code. If you have a new board that is using a different detect_code, such as `1234`, then use that.
  
  For the `ImaginaryBoard` based on `DISCO-L475VG-IOT01A`, run this command.

  ```
  mbedls --mock 0764:IMAGINARYBOARD
  ```
   
   <span class="notes">**Note:** Contact the Arm Mbed team to get a unique ID if you plan to have your board coexist with other Mbed Enabled boards while running automated tests.</span>

  Now run the tests, with the following command.
  
  ```
  mbed test -m IMAGINARYBOARD -t <toolchain>
  ```
  

>   The tests should start running.

Reviewer 2: Can we link to some information about testing?
